.TH man 1 "24 July 2015" "1.0" "crf-apply man page"

.SH NAME
crf-apply \- Applies a Conditional Random Field model to input data

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crf-apply 
.B \-c 
CONFIGFILE 
.B \-m 
MODELFILE
[
.B -r
] 
[
.B -e
] 
 
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR -c " "CONFIGFILE ",  " --config " " CONFIGFILE
Configuration file which determines the features to be annotated to the input tokens
during application.
See \fBcrf-conf(5)\fR for the format of this configuration file.

.TP
.BR -o " " {1,2,3} ",  "  --order {1,2,3}
Model order. 
The order of a CRF-model is roughly the same as the N in an N-gram model.
The model order must match the one specified during \fBcrf-train(1)\fR.

.TP
.BR -m " " MODELFILE ",  " --model " " MODELFILE
The CRF-model to be applied (as created by \fBcrf-train(1)\fR)

.TP
.BR -f " " FORMAT ",  " --format " " FORMAT
The output format. Currently, 
.B crf-apply
supports the following output formats:
a)
.B tsv 
outputs tab-separated data (where an empty line separates sequences)
b)
.B json
outputs JSON format (with keys ..., currently only supported for NE recognition), and
c)
.B single-line
outputs first the whole input token sequence followed a tab followed by the whole label sequence.
Between the sequences, a newline is outputted.

.TP 
.BR -r ", " --runnning-text
If set, \fBcrf-apply\fR assumes that is input is UTF-8 encoded running text. 
\fBcrf-apply\fR then extracts sequences from that input by using an heuristic 
sentence segmenter (for English). 
The sequences are tokenised, annotated with user-specified attributes 
and then written to the output.
If not set, \fBcrf-apply\fR assumes tab-separated input data (see \fBcrf-annotate(1)\fR).

.TP 
.BR -e ", " --eval
Switches on evaluation mode (requires input annotated with the correct labels).
Evaluation is currently only supported for tab-separated input and output data.

.TP 
.BR -h ", " --help
Displays usage information and exits.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcrf-apply\fR applies a trained CRF-model (see \fBcrf-train(1)\fR) 
to UTF-8 encoded input text data.
Text data can be either running text or tab-separated column data.
The output of \fBcrf-apply\fR can be rendered in different formats 
(see -f option) and is written to stdout.
\fBcrf-apply\fR also has an evaluation mode which requires input annotated with the correct labels.
In that case, \fBcrf-apply\fR also outputs accuracy, precison, recall and F1-score.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B crf-train(1)
,
.B crf-annotate(1)
, 
.B crf-train(5)
,
.B crf-annotate(5)
,
.B crf-conf(5)

.SH BUGS
The outputters are currently not general enough. 
Not all combinations of input format, output format and evaluation mode are possible.
The model order could be inferred from the model file.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Hanneforth, University of Potsdam (Thomas.Hanneforth@uni-potsdam.de)
