.TH man 1 "24 July 2015" "1.0" "crf-annotate man page"

.SH NAME
.B crf-annotate 
- Annotate labeled training data with user-specifiable attributes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crf-annotate 
.B -c 
CONFIGFILE 
[
.B -r
]
[
.B -t
] 
SUPERVISED-TRAINING-DATA
 
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR -c " "CONFIGFILE ",  " --config " " CONFIGFILE
Configuration file which determines the features to be annotated to the tokens 
of the input sequences during annotation/application.
See \fBcrf-conf(5)\fR for the format of this configuration file.

.TP 
.BR -r ", " --runnning-text
If set, 
.B crf-annotate 
assumes that its input is UTF-8 encoded running text. 
\fBcrf-annotate\fR then extracts sequences from that input by using an heuristic 
sentence segmenter (for English). 
A sequence can never cross a line break. 
A line can consist of several sequences.
The sequences are tokenised, annotated with user-specified attributes 
and then written to the output.
In running text mode, \fBcrf-annotate\fR processes the special 
named-entity annotation syntax where the named entities are enclosed
within <ne class="C"> ... </ne> where C is \fBLOC\fR(ation), \fBPER\fR(son), 
\fBORG\fR(anization), \fBPRO\fR(duct) or \fBEVE\fR(nt).
If not set, \fBcrf-annotate\fR assumes tab-separated input data
(\fBcrf-annotate(5)\fR).

.TP 
.BR -t
Add the input token also to the output

.TP 
.BR -h ", " --help
Displays usage information and exits.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcrf-annotate\fR is usually the first step for training \fIlinear Conditional Random Fields\fR (LCRFs).
\fBcrf-annotate\fR extracts labeled sequences from the UTF-8 encoded text file SUPERVISED-TRAINING-DATA.
\fBcrf-annotate\fR handles running-text or tab-separated data.
After sequence extraction, the attributes specified in the configuration file are added 
to the input tokens and the results are written to stdout.
Attributes are either derived from the input tokens and their contexts 
(for example N-gram features) or can be taken from external ressources. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.B crf-train(1)
, 
.B crf-annotate(1)
.B 
, 
.B crf-apply(1)
,
.B crf-train(5)
,
.B crf-annotate(5)
,
.B crf-conf(5)
.

.SH BUGS
The annotation mechanism for running text containing labeled subsequences is currently 
restricted to named-entity recognition.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Hanneforth, University of Potsdam (Thomas.Hanneforth@uni-potsdam.de)

