.TH crf-train 1 "24 July 2015" "1.0" "crf-train man page"

.SH NAME
.B crf-train 
\- train a linear Conditional Random Field model

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crf-train 
.B -o 
{1,2,3} 
.B -n 
INTEGER 
.B -m 
MODELFILE 
[
.B -v
] 
TRAINING-CORPUS
 
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR -o " " {1,2,3} ",  "  --order {1,2,3}
Model order. 
The order of a CRF-model is roughly the same as the N in an N-gram model.
The model order must match the one specified during crf-train.

.TP
.BR -n " "INTEGER ",  " --num-iterations " " INTEGER
Number of iterations the training algorithms are applied to the training data

.TP
.BR -m " " MODELFILE ",  " --model " " MODELFILE
Binary file where the trained model is written to

.TP
.BR -v ",  " --verbose
Outputs the model also in textual form

.IP -h ",  " --help
Displays usage information and exits.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crf-train 
implements several supervised training algorithms for 
.B Linear Conditional Random Fields 
(LCRFs). 
LCRFs are used for sequence labeling tasks like tagging, named-entity recognition etc.
.B crf-train 
requires an annotated training corpus and creates a binary file containing the LCRF.
.B crf-train 
supports LCRFs of the order 1, 2 or 3. 
The order of a model is the number of previous output labels are taken into account 
to determine the current output label. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.B crf-annotate(1)
, 
.B crf-apply(1)
, 
.B crf-train(5)
, 
.B crf-annotate(5)
.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Hanneforth, University of Potsdam (Thomas.Hanneforth@uni-potsdam.de)

